Subelement: G3
Title: Radio Wave Propagation
Exam Questions: 3
Groups: 3

Group: G3A

G3A01
What is the significance of the sunspot number with regard to HF propagation?
--
*A. Higher sunspot numbers generally indicate a greater probability of good
    propagation at higher frequencies
 B. Lower sunspot numbers generally indicate greater probability of spradic E
    propagation
 C. A zero sunspot number indicates that radio propagation is not possible on
    any band
 D. A zero sunspot number indicates undisturbed conditions

G3A02
What effect does a Sudden Ionospheric Disturbance have on the daytime
ionospheric propagation of HF radio waves?
--
 A. It enhances propagation on all HF frequencies
*B. It disrupts signals on lower frequencies more than those on higher
    frequencies
 C. It disrupts communications via satellite more than direct communications
 D. None, because only areas on the night side of the Earth are affected

G3A03
Approximately how long does it take the increased ultraviolet and X-ray
radiation from solar flares to affect radio propagation on Earth?
--
 A. 28 days
 B. 1 to 2 hours
*C. 8 minutes
 D. 20 to 40 hours

G3A04
Which of the following are least reliable for long-distance communications
during periods of low solar activity?
--
 A. 80 meters and 160 meters
 B. 60 meters and 40 meters
 C. 30 meters and 20 meters
*D. 15 meters, 12 meters, and 10 meters

G3A05
What is the solar flux index?
--
 A. A measure of the highest frequency that is useful for ionospheric
    propagation between two points on Earth
 B. A count of sunspots that is adjusted for solar emissions
 C. Another name for the American sunspot number
*D. A measure of solar radiation at 10.7 centimeters wavelength

G3A06
What is a geomagnetic storm?
--
 A. A sudden drop in the solar flux index
 B. A thunderstorm that affects radio propagation
 C. Ripples in the ionosphere
*D. A temporary disturbance in Earth's magnetosphere

G3A07
At what point in the solar cycle does the 20-meter band usually support
worldwide propagation during the daylight hours?
--
 A. At the summer solstice
 B. Only at the maximum point in the solar cycle
 C. Only at the minimum point in the solar cycle
*D. At any point in the solar cycle

G3A08
Which of the following effecgts can a geomagnetic storm have on radio
propagation?
--
 A. Improved high-latitude HF propagation
*B. Degraded high-latitude HF propagation
 C. Improved ground wave propagation
 D. Degraded ground wave propagation

G3A09
What benefit can high geomagnetic activity have on a radio communications?
--
*A. Auroras that can reflect VHF signals
 B. Higher signal strength for HF signals passing through the polar regions
 C. Improved HF long path propagation
 D. Reduced long delayed echoes

G3A10
What causes HF propagation conditions to vary periodically in a roughly 28-day
cycle?
--
 A. Long term oscillations in the upper atmosphere
 B. Cyclic variation in Earth's radiation belts
*C. The sun's rotation on its axis
 D. The position of the moon in its orbit

G3A11
How long does it take charged paorticles from coronal mass ejections to affect
radio propagation on Earth?
--
 A. 28 days
 B. 14 days
 C. 4 to 8 minutes
*D. 20 to 40 hours

G3A12
What does the K-index indicate?
--
 A. The relative position of sunspots on the surface of the sun
*B. The short-term stability of Earth's magnetic field
 C. The stability of the sun's magnetic field
 D. The solar radio flux at Boulder, Colorado

G3A13
What does the A-index indicate?
--
 A. The relative position of sunspots on the surface of the sun
 B. The amount of polarization of the sun's magnetic field
*C. The long-term stability of Earth's geomagnetic field
 D. The solar radio flux at Boulder, Colorado

G3A14
How are radio communications usually affected by the charged particles that
reach earth from solar coronal holes?
--
 A. HF communications are improved
*B. HF communications are disturbed
 C. VHF/UHF ducting is improved
 D. VHF/UHF ducting is disturbed


